Business ethics:

Ethics - Moral principles thaat govern the behaviour of a business.
Morals - Standards of behaviour; principles of right and wrong.

Trade-off - A trade-off arises where having more of one thing potentially results in having less of another.

Ethical decisions:
Businesses want to appear to be doing "the right thing", but this is not always possible if they wish to make a profit.
Often there is a trade-off between ethics and profitabiltiy.
Ethical trading is expensive , and this will have an impact on costs and therefore profitability.

Deepwater Horizon:
2010 BP oil rig Deepwater Horizon caught fire.
11 men lost their lives.
President Obama said it was "the worst environmental disaster ever".
Millions of gallons of oil spilt into the Gulf of Mexico. 
All due to cost cutting by BP, failure to invest in training and health and safety.
Worst affected were the fishermen adn residents of the gulf.

Netstle:
Nestle has been voten the least ethical company of the last 25 years.
The swiss food company has won with 15% of the vote, finishing just above Mansanto (14%) and the uk's number one tax avoider Amazon (12%).
Nestle is currently subject to the longest ever running consumer boycott. For over 20 year, Milk Action has called a boycott of the company 
for it's irresponsible marketing of baby milk formula, which infinges the international code of marketing of breast-milk.

Shareholders:
Shareholders are interested in the profit performance of the business and any potential dividend payout from it.
They are kess concerned with costly ethical issues and may even discourage ethical intiatives on financial grounds.

Stakeholders:
Stakeholders are interested in teh way that supplers of materials and components to the business are treated.
Pressure groups are interested in the use of child labour and sweatshops in the process.

Pay and rewards:

Salaries, wages and other forms of financial reward (e.g. performance-related bonuses) play an importnat role in:
- Rewarding and motivating existing staff
- Attracting new employees
- Maximising productivity levels

Current ethical concerns regarding pay:
The gender pay gap:
In the UkK< the gender pay gap stands at around 10%.

Minimum wages:
Many business pay workers the legally required minimum wage.

Executive bonuses:
In 2022, the pay of the CEOs of FTSE 100 companies jumped by an
average of 25%, largely because of record bonus payments.
At the same time, many businesses were restricting pay increases
for employees to help them cope with increasing levels of inflation.

CSR - (corporate social responsibility) a business approach that 
contributes to sustainable development by delivering economic,
social and environmental benefits for all stakeholders.

CSR impact:
CSR means that a business considers the impact that its decisions have on us as citizens.
The business also considers they have responsibilities they have towards society and its stakeholders.
It is generally accepted that CSR principles are incompatible with profit maximisation objectives.
However, many businesses now use their CSR credentials as a selling feature of their products, services or brands.

Corporate social responsibility policies:
Recuce negative environmental impact,
Positive regard for human rights in employments,
Ethical trading policies,
Using sustainable resources,
Positive links with the community,
Reducing cliate change,



