1. Differentiate between strong and weak cultures:
Strong cultures have good communication with their employees.
They have focus on core values. The recruitment and training tries
to find individuals who best fit the culture of the business.
The culture is usually based around the history, tradition and 
founders of the business.

A weak culture often leads to business failure. It will exhibit a 
demotivated workforce. There will be inconsistent customer service.
It may be poorly managed. It will be very bureaucratic and lack
flexibility to respond to dynamic markets.

2. Can you classify the company cultures:
  1. Power:
  Handy's power culture is represented by a spider on a web, this
  symbolises a very strong owner or manager at the heart of the 
  business.
  This person at the centre of the business will be the main 
  decision maker. There may be problems if the business grows
  and the central figure struggles to delegate.

  2. Role:
  Handy's role culture is represented by the drawing of a bank or
  Greek temple, this symbolises the bureaucracy, red tape, and 
  paperwork systems in this very rigit organisation.
  This is a very formal culture that has clear rules and
  procedures. Individuals are aware of their position in the 
  hierarchy.

  3. Task:
  Task culture is represented by a matrix or a grid diagram, this
  symbolises a series of work teams in a large organisation.
  In a task culture, the focus is a project that needs to be 
  completed. The power in a task culture comes from those who
  can accomplish the tasks and have the expertise. This involves 
  teamwork on a project, a team of experts working together.

  4. Person:
  Person culture is represented by a pertri dish. In these kind
  of organisations, individuals have considerable freedom to act
  indipendently. This symbolises employess in an organisation
  that are all autonomous and skilled individuals.

3. Explain how a corporate culture is formed?
   Some of the key factors include:
   A. The role of the founders and owners.
   B. The nature of the business and the products is sells.
   C. The degree to which products sold have changed over time.
   D. The business environment when it started (war time etc).
   E. The recruitment and process of key staff.
   F. Working hours.
   G. Attitude to customer service.

4. What are the difficulties in changing an established culture?
   Strong cultures are hard to change because a culture consists
   of interlocking component (goals, roles, values, practices etc).


