Decision making trees:

A decision making tool showing the possible outcomes of a decision with the estimated probability and expected monetary value of each of 
these outcomes.

A business can't afford to follow every option so it may use a decision tree diagram to analyse the probability of a success in a choice of
strategies (a new product launch, a new marketing campaign).

How the decision tree works:
  A decision tree traces and alternative outcome of a decision, the results can be compared, and the business can decide which option would
  be the most profitable.
  This is a quantative approach (means it uses numbers) it is pictorial as its in the shape of a tree and it predicts the best bet outcome,
  so a business knows what to spend its money on.
  The data is usually based on historical data from the business, for example they would know the probability of success of launching a new 
  product would be 20% based on previous launches and how well thet had turned out.

Set by step decision tree walkthrough:
- Start with a decision point:
  It all starts with a decision point, which is a square, this may be empty, say "A" or "1", and it appears at the start.
  A decision needs to be made by the business at this point, there may be more decision points in the diagram, and they are always a square.

- Add in two decisions to make:
  Now the business must decide between the courses of action, there will (obviously) be more than one.
  
- Add chance nodes to the decisions:
  Each decision that the business makes may result in a number of outcomes. This is shown using a chance node which is always round.
  (at the moment, the diagram should have a square on the left, two lines coming out of the right side horizontally, and nodes attached to 
  the end of those two lines)

- Add probability data:
  Now the success of failure (variations) probability data can be added to the diagram (you will be given this data in a question).
  (The 2 nodes now have 2 possibilities each, so 4 possibilities in total - success or failure with percentages - attached, still going 
  right)

- Add the expected profit or loss from each decision

- Calculate expected outcome:
  (Probability2 * Final payoff) + (Probability2 * Final payoff)

- If the cost of the project is also known, you can add it to your calculation.

Limitations:
1. Decision trees are based on predicted data of the potential imapct of a decision.
2. Decision tree does not consider unforeseen costs and circumstances.
3. Probabilities and net outcomes are all estimates.
4. Using decision trees might fit with the culture exhibited by the business but this is unlikely to be overriden by the need to act quickly,
   which would suggest the decision trees are not that useful in some situations.
5. Large degree of uncertainty about any situation that a decision tree might be used for, so the benefits of adding numbers to uncertainty.



