3.5.3 Human resources:

1. Define what labour productivity is:
Labour productivity is the output per worker in a time period.
For example, in a car garage we could measure the number of 
faults fixed by each mechanic in a day.

2. How do you interpret labour productivity:
Productivity is output per worker, and it measures the 
efficiency of the workforce.
A business will seek to increase productivity to reduce the 
average cost per unit to produce.
Labour productivity can be improved through kaizen, TQM, lean
production.
Labour productivity can be measured by a formula.

3. What is the formula to calculate 'Labour productivity:
Labour productivity = Total output / Number of workers

4. Fill in the blanks:
A: 40000 / 300 = 133.3
B: 1million / 524 = 1908.4
C: 257524 / 457 = 563.5

5. How do you define 'Labour turnover':
Labour turnover measures the rate at which employees leave the 
business is a 1 year period.

6. What is the formula to caluclate 'Labour turnover':
(Number of employees leaving / Average number of employees) 
x 100

7. Fill in the blanks:
A: (21 / 300) x 100 = 7
B: (45 / 524) x 100 = 8.6
C: (3 / 447) x 100 = 0.7

8. How do you interpret 'labour turnover':
A high rate of labour turnover would be bad for business; it
means that staff are so unhappy they don't stay in the business
and they leave.
The business then has all the costs of recruiting and training
another member of staff.
One of the objectives of a business might be to reduce the rate
of labour turnover.
We can measure the rate of turnover using a formula.
This is a measure of performance. 
Some industries may naturally have a high turnover so context
is important. 
Turnover should be measured against historical figures in the 
business.
High labour turnover may be due to poor recruitment, weak 
induction, lack of challenge in the job and low pay rates.
If this figure is rising year on year management should see 
this as a red flag and investigate it.

9. How do you degine 'Absenteeism':
The number of staff who are absent as a percentage of the total
workforce. The habitual non-presence of an employee at his or
her job. Possible causes of absenteeism include job 
dissatisfaction, ongoing personal issues and medical problems.
Regardless of cause, a worker with a pattern of being absent
may put their reputation at risk, and may loose their job.

10. What is the formula to calculate 'Absenteeism':
(Staff absent in a particular time period / total number of 
staff) x 100

11. Fill in the blanks:
A: (21 / 730) * 100 = 2.9
B: (45 / 1095) * 100 = 4.1
C: (3 / 1460) * 100 = 0.2

12. How do you interpret 'Absenteeism':
The results of absenteeism calculations can show if there is 
low staff morale or job satisfaction.
This can be caused by; poor management, stress at work through
role overload or under load, lack of recognition or poor 
working conditions.
Some absenteeism is natural as may be ill, but too much and it
could cost the business in terms of lost orders and poor 
customer relations.
Absenteeism can be improved through job enlargement, job 
rotation, incentive schemes etc.


13. Explain the flowing 'Human resouce strategies' in detail:

i. How can you reduce absenteeism:
By introducting more flexible working practices (e.g flexitime
or job share).
By ensuring that jobs are interesting and challenging.
By improving working conditions and thus reducing 
dissatisfaction.
By improving relations between employers and employees.
By introducing attendance bonuses as an incentive to attend
regularly.

ii. Explain financial rewards:
To motivate stagg so that they will turn up for work and will 
work harder is sometimes possible to do so through financial
rewards.
For example; commision in sales jobs, overtime on a weekly 
wage, bonus on a salaried wage, piece rate which is paid per 
unit, fees which is one off payment for work completed.

iii. What is meant by employee share ownership:
Where key employees will be paid a trance of shares if the 
business reaches important performance targets. 
Shared ownership can also bring a say in who runs the 
company. 
On major issues it can be a powerful reason for employees to
focus on business improvement.
However, employee share ownership never means employees taking
over business management.

iv. What is meant by consultation strategies:
When the management actually engage in discussions with 
employees about strategies and working practices.
Employees are motivated by being consulted on matters relating
to work by managers.
This can reduce absenteeism and labour turnover as it involves
the employee is a discussion on; pay conditions and work 
matters.

v. What is meant by empowerment strategies:
Empowerment means giving employees the authority to make
decisions.
This shows recognition of an employee's abilities and 
trustworthiness, and will boost their self-confidence and
motivate them hopefully reducing absenteeism and raising 
productivity.
Criticism of this method is that it may be an excuse to cut
costs, delayer and make managers redundant.

I believe that the most optimal option for reaching buy directs objective of increasing revenue is through diversification.

Structure-conclusion:
Which option?
Why? (what is your most important reason? or why is option x better than option y?)
This links to ... - develop with three chains of development. You can use MOPS or the short-term vs long term view to help.
Add in some context to your conclusion (at hasn't been mentioned before).

MOPS; market, objectives, products (or services), situation

