3.5.2 Ratio analysis:

Ratio analysis is a quantitative method of gaining insight into a company's liquidity, operational efficiency, and profitability by 
studying its financial statments such as the statement of financial position (SOFP) and the statement of comprehensive income (SOCI
).

Current ratio formula:
Current assets / current liabilities.

The answer should be expressed as a ratio to 1, so for example 3:1.
This is also known as the working capital ratio.
The ideal is around 1.5:1 and 2:1.
Below 1.5:1, the business might not have enough working capital to cover all their bills.
They may be over-borrowing or over trading and will have cash flow problems.
Above 2:1 and the money in the business is tied up and not being used efficiently.

1.2:1

Acid test ratio formula:
(Current assets - inventory) / current liabilities

The acid test ratio is also known as the quick ratio and is the most commonly used ratio to judge the financial health of a 
business. 
Stock is excluded because it may perish or be obsolete or not worth the stated value. If it was to be included it would over value
the business.
A result of less than 1:1 means that the current assets do not meet their current liabilities and the business will struggle to pay
the day-to-day bills e.g. suppliers.

1.09:1 

Gearing ratio formula: 
(Non-current liabilities / Capital employed) x 100
The answer should be expressed as a percentage.

Non-current liabilities are also known as long-term liabilities.

The gearing ratio looks at the long-term finance of the business and where it comes from.
A result of over 50%(?) means that the business is highly geared, most of the money comes from loans, this is very risky for a 
potential investor.
A result of less than 50% means that the business is low geared and most of the money comes from the owners, a better risk for an
investor.

Capital employed = Shareholders equity + Long-term liabilities
Capital employed = total assets - current liabilities

ROCE ratio forumula:
(Operating profit / Capital employed) x 100
The ratio must be expressed as a percentage

Return on capital employed is a measure of this profitability of the business.
If you were considering investing in a business, you might calculate the ROCE % and then compare this against a bank savings
plan (less risky) of 5%.
The higher the ROCE figure the better.
Demonstrates how hard the business made the money invested work.

-2.5%
0.7%

Limitations of ratio analysis:
The statement of financial position (SOFP) or balance sheet is just a snapshot of the business on one day. If the rations are based
on this figure, then it's a ratio of just one day.
The ratios are only as good as the data provided
The ratios need comparisons to previous data
Ratios must be seen in an industry context
Keep in context
During a recession for example, it may be useful to compare the business performance with a competitor




