Small businesses:

What advantages might a cafe have by staying small?
  Lower costs
  More loyal customer base

What might they lose if they tried to grow into a chain?
  Control

The usual defenition of small and medium sized enterprises (SMEs) is any business with fewer than 250 employees.
Micro businesses are business with 0-9 employees.
Under UK law (companies act, via companies house), a company is classed as a small company if it meets at least two of the 
following criteria: 
  Turnover of £15 million or less, Balance sheet total (i.e. assests) of £7.5 million or less, 50 employees
  or less.

Many firms start small and grow into large companies or even mulitnational corporations.
While many firms grow, others do not, or they intentionally choose to remain small but are successful for a range of reasons.


Small businesses survival in competetive markets:
1.Product differentiation and USPs:
  Creates value - highlights quality of durability of the product.
  Non-price competition - A differentiation strategy will focus on other ways of attracting customers such as taste and style.
  Brand loyalty - A differentiation strategy can gain customer loyalty.
  No percieved substitute

  USP is a way of promoting the features of the product of service of the business:
    Quality
    Customer service
    Delivery
    Design
    Price
    Technical features/functions

2.Flexibility in responding to customer needs:
  A small business can gain a significant competetive advantage over larger companies if it responds quickly to customer's needs.
  It can do this by:
    Carrying out market research
    Gaining feedback; forums, polls, user groups, online communities 
    Track social media discussions about the products
    Collect data on customers transactions
    Callaborate with customers to produce new products or services.

3.Customer service:
  Small businesses can compete in very competetive markets by giving excellent customer service.
  Consumers appreciate businesses that give them more for their money, especially when times are though.
  Efficient service, fast delivery and flexible payment terms will help to persuade customers to spend with them rather than
  with a competitor.

4.E-comerce:
  Small businesses cna sell successffully through third party website such as ebay. etsy, and amazon.
  Very easy for small business owners to cheaply develop their own websites with basic IT skills, using sites like Wix.
  Emails is a great way to communicate with customers.
  Social media platforms can be used to promote the products.



