Interpretation of financial statements:

Statement of comprehensive income:
This used to be called the profit and loss account, so if you are googling for revision you may need to know that. This is part
of the legal documents that must be published each year by ltd or plc companies.
This document shows if the business has made a profit or a loss during the year.

SOCI is also known as a profit and loss statement.

Sales revenue is money into the business that occurs from ordinary trading. It is also known as turnover or income.
Formula for sales revenue is:
Q x P (where Q = quantity and P = price)

Cost of sales is also known as good sold or COGS/COS.
If the business eslss frozen food, then the rest of the sales will be all the frozen food it buys in from other manufacturers to
sell at a profit.

Gross profit = Revenue - cost of sales,
Gross profit figures are used by the managers of the business to judge which products or services are the most profitable.

Expenses are costs to the business that have nothing to do with stock or the making of the product.
Examples are:
	administration,
	adveritising,
	petrol,
	insurance

Operating profit = Gross profit - Expenses
Operating profit is a true measure of how much profit (or loss) the business has made over the year (before tax is deducted).
This information is used by potential investors of the business to see how hard their money would work if it was invested into the
business.

----------------

Revenue
Cost of sales -> Opening stock
		 Purchases 
		 Closing stock
		 Cost of sales
Gross profit
Expenses
Operating profit
----------------

-----------------
Sales
- Cost of sales
Gross profit
- Admin expenses
Operating Profit
+ Net interest
Profit before tax
- Taxation
Profit after tax
-----------------

Stakeholder interest in SOC:
Shareholders - want to know the final profit fiure which dividends will be paid out on,
Investors - want to know the profitability of the business - is it worth investing or will it be a risk?
Employees and manager - may wish to know the expenses of the business.

Statement of financial position (SOFP):
A statement of financial position (SOFP) is the other document that needs to be published as part of the annual business accounts.
This document used to be called the balance sheet, and shows what the business owns and owes on one day of the year.

Assets = Liability + Capital
The two sides must be balanced (as the money has not been dissolved), hence the term balance sheet.
For example, in a cafe business, the owner may buy an over at the start. This is a fixed asset and its value will be shown on
the SOFP.

Key information on a statement of financial position:
- Current assets
- Non-current assets
- Current liabilities
- Long-term liabilities

Non-current assets:
Fixed assets are items that a business owns but that will pay the business back after 1 year.

Current liabilities:
These are items that the business owes, that need to be paid by the business within 1 year.




