Specification 									Notes made	Ready for knowledge check?
1. Divisions of the nervous system						yes		nearly
2. Structure and function of sensory, relay and motor neurons. Synapic 		yes		no
transmission, neurotransmitters, exhitation and inhibition.
3. Function of the endocrine system; glands and hormones.			yes		need to remember more detail
4. Fight or flight response, including the role of adrenaline			yes		need to remember more detail
5. Localisation of function in the brain					yes		yes
6. Plasticity and functional recovery after trauma				yes		nearly
7. 


Key terms:
Nervous system - The system responsible for controlling the body and comprehending external stimuli
Central nervous system - Brain, brain stem and spine
Peripheral nervous system - The nervous system outide of the CNS
Somatic nervous system - Consisting of the motor and sensory nervous systems,
Autonomic nervous system - Consisting of the sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous systems,
Endocrine system - The system responsible for the production of hormones
Gland - An organ (?) that secretes hormones
Hormones - Chemicals which control the activity of internal bodily functions
Fight or flight response - The increase of heart rate and 
Adrenaline - A hormone responsible for the fight or flight response, incresaes arousal
Neuron - Cells which conduct electrical charge across the body to revieve and send information 
Sensory neurons - neurons which can detect tactile external stimuli
Relay neurons - neurons which act as a means to...
Motor neurons - neurons which are able to move on command from the brain/CNS or relfex
Localisation of function - The study of where in the brain certain functions are located
Motor area - Area responsible for movement
Somatosensory area - Area responsible for comprehending touch 
Visual area - Area responsible for processing visual information
Auditory area - Area responsible for producing, processing and understanding sound
Broca's area - Responsible for speech production
Wernicke's area - Responsible for speech comprehension 
Plasticity - The brains ability to adapt and be molded
Functional recovery - Positive plasticity and repair to damage 
Hemispheric lateralisation - The research put into finding out the differences between the left and right hemishpere of the brain. 
Split-brain research - Experiments involved in removing the corpus collum and detaching the left and right sides of the brain from each other.
fMRI - Using blood flow in the brain to determine activity (and that's being done using haemoglobin)
EEG - Measuring brian activity in terms of brain waves
ERPs - Using a EEG to determine the location of function using experiments and tasks 
Post-mortem examination - The examination of a participantss brain after death
Biological rhythms - Rhyhtms that control bodily functions
Circadian rhythm - A rhythm that lasts 24 hours (sleep/wake cycle)
Infradian rhythm - A rhythm that lasts less than 24 hours 
Ultradian rhyhtm - A rhythm that lasts more than 24 hours
Endogenous pacemakers - Internal pacemakers (superchiasmatic nucleus)
Exogenous pacemakers - External cues which affect the bodies internal clock (sunlight, temperature)
Sleep/wake cycle - A circadian rhythm that controls when we sleep and wake up


