1. The fight or flight response enabled our ancestors to survive 
  but can be less helpful in response to more modern stressors 
  explain how the body responds during fight or flight and why this
  could be helpful in a driving test situation (4 marks) 

The fight or flight response is a trigger to the sympathetic 
nervous system (which is a part of a greater system - autonomic
nervous system), in which the body produces adrenaline and 
noradrenaline in anticipation to a percieved threat. Common 
symptoms are hightened awareness, increased blood flow to muscles,
racing heart and shortness of breath. An advantage of the FOF 
response during a driving test is highened alertness. Considering
that you're still a relatively new driver, you might be unaware 
of the common threats and risks of the road, especially when
compared to the average driver with more experience, so with
extra (consideration to your) spacial awareness, there is a smaller
chance of making a careless mistake.

2. Describe the divisions of the nervous system. (6 marks) 
Centeral, peripheral -> (Autonomic -> sympathetic, parasympathetic)
, (Somatic -> sensory, motor)

The central nervous system is the main nervous system in the body, 
it connects all other systems to it, and it composes of the brain, 
brain stem and spinal cord. Its main role is to control movement,
and recieve signals from across the body. Connected to the CNS is
the peripheral nervous system (peripheral meaning situated just
outside - keyboard and mouse is a "peripheral"). It consists of all
the nerves that lie outside of the CNS. 

The PNS can be split furter into two groups, the autonomic and 
somatic nervous systems. The autonomic nervous system is 
responsible for the automatic functioning of internal bodily 
functions. The autonomic can be split into two children (since
they're both at the bottom of the nervous systems tree). The 
sympathetic nervous systems role is to activate the fight or flight
(and freeze) response in response to percieved danger, and to tell
the adrenal glands to produce the required hormones (adrenaline +
noradrenaline). The parasympathetic does the opposite, the 
sympathetic nervous system also turns off certain functions, such
as digestion, which need to be running after the FOF response, it's
role is to stabalize the body, and return it to its idle state.

Going back up the tree and across, there lays the somatic nervous 
system. The somatic nervous systems role is to control motor and 
sensory function, those are also the names of the last two nervous
systems; the sensory and motor nervous systems. The sensory nervous
system uploads data from touch receptors, and sends the information
to the brain/CNS. The motor nervous system controls movement and
coordination, with the use of sensory input, the brain sends
impulses to the specific muscles to move.


3. Explain the process of synaptic transmission. (4 marks) 

Synaptic transmission is the process by which neurons communicate
with one another by sending chemicla signals, named 
neurotransmitters accross the synaptic cleft (a small gap).
The process of synaptic transmission goes as followed; an 
electrical impulse travels down to the axon of the presynaptic
neuron until it reaches the terminal end, the arrival of the 
"action potential" triggers voltage-gated calcium channels to open,
allowing calcium ions to enter the cell. This entrance of calcium
causes synaptic vesicles - which contain neurotransmitters - to 
fuse with the presynaptic membrane and their contents are released
into the synaptic cleft (the small gap mentioned at the beginning).
Neurotransmitter molecules diffuse accross the synaptic cleft and
bind to specific receptor sites on the postsynaptic neuron (beyond
the cleft). The binding of the neurotranmitter to the receptor
activates the postsynaptic neuron, causing it to generate an
electical signal - the signal can be excitatory or inhibitory.
To stop any more stimulation, neurotransmitters are taken away
from the synaptic cleft through enzymatic destruction or reuptake
by the presynaptic neuron.


