A correlation is a statistical technique used to investigate 
and measure the relationship or associtation between two 
variables which are also called co-variables.
It tells how strongly variables are related
The variables are simply measured, not manipulated like in 
experiments.
Only an association is found, no cause-and-effect relationship
is found hence the terms IV and DV are not used.

A correlation co-efficient is a nunmber that once statistically
calculated, can determine the strenght of a relationship 
between co-variables.
This does not mean that one variable is causing another, but 
that there is a relationship of some sort.
The number will range from -1 to +1.
Negative is -1 to 0, and positive 0 to 1.
Strong correlations are (-)0.5 above or below, so weak are -0.5
to 0.5.

Positive correlation - As one variable increases, so does the 
other. On a scattergram, a positive correlation will show an 
increase from the bottom left. The line of best fit has a 
positive gradient.

Negative - As one variable increases, the other decreases.
On a scattergram, a negative correlation will show a decrease 
from the bottom left. The line of best fit has a negative 
gradient.

Zero correlations - Where there is no relationship between the
co-variables.
On a scattegram, no correlation (or a very weak correlation) 
will appear as random dots plotted, with no direction. No line
of best fit can be drawn as the point on the scattegraph are 
random.

Strengths: 
- Research opportunities
- Ethical 
- Quick and economical

Limitations: 
- Causation
- Lack of control

Curvilinear relationship:
As one variable increases, so does the other but only up to a
certain point after which as one variable continues to 
increase, the other begins to decrease. On a graph this forms 
an inverted U shape.
An example of such a relationship is shown by the Yerkes-Dodson
law.

A coefficient of 0.34 concludes that there is a weak positive 
correlation between the hours spent playing video games and the
number of nightmares, and for it to be a strong correlation, it
would have to be above 0.5 (or below -0.5). 


