
Open up the PowerPoint lesson on Data Types. This is found in 
the Research Methods folder under class work. You must 
write/type notes on this and complete the questions on the 
slides. Remember to also add more information to the work by 
looking through the core textbook to help with having a clear 
understanding of the different data types.

In order to be marked in for the lesson, you must send me a copy 
or photo of your notes by the end of the day - 16:30pm.


Learning Outcomes:

1. Distinguish between qualitative and quantitative data,
2. Explain the difference between primary and secondary data,
3. Evaluate the different types of data.


Quantitative data is numerical data that can be statistically 
analysed and converted into a graphical format.
Experiemnts, structured observations, correlations and closed/rating
-scale experiments all produce quantitative data.

Strenghts:
- Easy to analyse
- Reliable

Limitations:
- Lacks insight
- Oversimplified

Qualitative data is non-numerical, language-based data expressed in
words.
This is collected through semi-structured or unstructured interviews
and open questions in a questionare. It allows researchers to
develop an insight into the unique nature of human experiences,
opinions and feelings.

Strenghts:
- Rich
- Ideal for theory development

Limitations:
- Hard to analyse
- Generalisability (may not fully represent)

Primary data refers to data that has been collected for a specific 
reason and for the purpose of an investigation.
It is data that the participant reports directly to the researcher
or is witnessed firsthand by the researcher.

Examples: participants keep diaries about stress and submit them
to the researcher after a week, participants estimate the speed of a
vehicle during a crash, participants complete a memory test.

Stengths:
- Relevance
- Fit for purpose

Limitations:
- Time consuming
- Generalisability (may not fully represent)

Secondary data is information that was collected by other 
researchers for a purpose other than the investigation in which it
is currently used. In other words, it is data that already exists.

Examples: participatns find their old school reports and 
provide them to the researcher for analysis, researchers conduct
a content analysis using old newspaper articles, a meta-analysis
is done of the studies that used the strange situation.

Strenghts:
- Quick
- Representative (more likely to apply to wider groupd)

Limitations:
- May not be relevant
- Not fit for purpsose

Knowledge check:

Which of the following is an example of qualitative data:
(B) A participant's written description of a traumatic event,
(correct)

Primary data is best described as:
(C) Data that is collected first-hand by the researcher for a 
specific investigation,
(correct)

Which of the following is a limitation of quantitative data?
(C) It lacks depth and may not reveal participant meaning,
(correct)

Exam-style question:
Qualitative data is language based data in words, which is often
used to describe something. Quantiative data is numerical and can
be expressed on a graph, commonly used to count the frequency of
something. The interviews that the psychologist runs with 
participants about their experiences of social anxiety is going
to make qualitative data because the participants are going to 
explain/describe the "qualities" of their anxiety. The recording
of the number of times each participants avoids social events in 
a month is going to be quantitative because it involves numerical
values that can be measured, as well as analysed.



