Ethical Issues:
1. Informed consent - give engough info to ensure pps is informed
2. Protection from harm - protecting pps physically and psychologically
3. Deception - not giving all information about the research
4. Brief and debrief 
5. Privacy and confidentiality
6. Right to withdraw

1. What are the justifications for using deception in 
   research:
   
   Milgram - deception - to avoid demand characteristics,
   ensure results have validity.

   (1) The significance of the study in terms of its 
   "prospecitve, scientific, educational or applied value",
   and (2) "effective non-deceptive alternative procedures 
   are not feasable.


Children, vulnurable adults and disabled invividuals need 
safeguarding through research.

Briefing and debriefing:
  Briefing participans before the experiment begins is important
  so that they are aware and informed about what will be happening
  in the research.

  Debriefing represents a major part of protecting participants
  where emotional suffering has occured.

  Participants must be told if they have been deceived and given
  reasons why. They must be asked if they have any questions,
  which should be answered honestly and as fully as possible.

  Debriefing should occur as soon as possible and be as full as
  possible; experiment...

Privacy & Confidentiality:
  Privacy - The right to not be indentified, right not to be observed
  without consent, right to be left alone.

  Confidentiality - Information is only viewed by those authorised to
  see it.
  Data Protection Act '98 & GDPR 2018 responsibilities.

  Participants must be told what is being collected and what is going
  to be done with it.

  Info must be kept securely for limited lenght of time.

Right to withdraw:
  Participants should have the opportunity to withdraw at any time.
  This is something that they have to be aware of at the beginning 
  of the study/research.

  It is a way of protecting participants ensuring that they are aware of
  their rights to discontinue with an experiment at any time.

BPS:
  BPS is the British Psychology Society, and it's a
  representative body.

  It provides support and advice on research and practice
  issues. It is also a registered charity which imposes 
  certain restraints on what it can and cannot do.


Describe what is meant by conguence and how dominic might achieve congruence (6 Marks):

Congruence is an idea proposed by Carl Rogers that describes the harmony between the ideal self and the percieved self.
If those two are misaligned, then feelings of self-doubt and low self-esteem may arise, however, if they're in harmony,
then it leads to greater psychological well-being.
Dominic could achieve congruence by allowing change to occur within him, if he feels bad about the way he is, then he could 
try and change that. Self-acceptance, and learning to embrace both strenghs and weaknesses could also help.
