Descriptive statistics analyse quantitative(numerical) data to help
describe, show or summarise it in a meaningful way.

Measures of central tendency:
Hey diddle diddle,
The median is the middle,
you add and divide for the mean,
the mode is the one that occurs the most,
and the range is the difference between.

The mean is the only method to take all the scores in a data set
into consideration. However, the mean is skewed by anomalies. If 
there are extreme high or low scores in the data set, the mean will
be affected.

The mode is not affecte by anomalies. It only looks at the most 
frequently occuring scores, which means that the mode cannot be an
anomaly. However, the mode does not consider all scores, and if 
there is more than on mode, then it does not tell us much about the
data set.

The median is not affecte by anomalies. It only looks at the middle
value, which will not be an anomaly. However, the median does not 
consider all scores so it may not be truly representative of the 
data set.



There are two main measures of dispersion, and they inform us about
the spread/variation in a data set:
- range
- standard deviation

Low range/SD suggest less variation, while high scores suggest 
plenty of variation in a data set.
Low scores are ideal.

Range - the difference between your highest and lowest values.

Standard deviation is a measure of dispertion that shows the spread
of scores around the mean.
The greater the standar deviation, the greater the spread of scores 
around the mean.

SD is calculated using all the values in a data set; therefore, it 
is arguably more representative than the range.
However, it's complex and time-consuming to calculate. In addition,
SD calculatiosn are based on the mean, which could be skewed.
If the mean is affected by anomalies, then the calculations for SD
will also be inaccurate.

The range is a quicker and easier measure of dispersion to caluclate
; however, it is not as precisie as standard deviation.
In addition, the range uses the highest and lowest scores in a data
set, which means that the anomalous data could be involved in the 
calculation.



(new value - original value)
---------------------------- x100 = precentage increase
     original value

((16 - 13) / 13) * 100 = 23.08%


(original value - new value)
---------------------------- x100 = precentage decrease
     original value

((13 - 8) / 13) * 100 = 38.46%


may -> june = ((67-59) / 67) * 100 = 11.94%
100 - 11.94 = 88.06% of those diagnosed in may
june -> july = (88.06 / 100) * 59 = 52 cases (rounded) 
july -> august = (88.06 / 100) * 52 = 46 cases (rounded) 

A bar chart or bar graph is a graph that presents categorial data
with rectangular bars with heights or lengths proportional to the 
values they present.

A histogram is a display of statistical information that uses 
rectangles to show the frequency of data items in successive 
numerical intervals of equal size.
In the most common form of histogram, the independent variable is
plotted along the horizontal axis and the dependent variable is
plotted along the vertical axis.

Bar charts:
- Bars have equal space
- Bar charts are used to compare variables
- Bar charts plot categorial/nominal data

Histograms:
- Bars are fixed close together
- Histograms are used to show distributions of variables
- Histograms plot quantitative data with ranges of the data 
  grouped into bind or intervals.

Distributions:
Normal distributions:
A normal distribution is an arragement of data that is symmetrical
and forms a bell-shaped pattern where the mean, median and (or) mode
falls into the centre at the higest peak.
In other words, in a normal distribution, the mean and the median
are the same number, or the same interval range.

A distribution is skewed when data points cluster more towards
one side of the scale than the other, creating a curve that is not
symmetrical.

A distribution is positively skewed if the scores fall toward the 
lower side of the scale and there are very few higher scores.
Positively skewed data is also referred to as skewed to the right,
as it has a long tail that extends to the right.
Elo systems are positively skewed.

A negatively skewed distribution is negatively skewed if the scores 
fall toward the higher side of the scale and there are very few
low sccores.
Negatively skewed data is also reffered to the left because it has 
a long tail end that extends to the left.

